Welcome back I'm going to show you a type Now that well I don't recommend using but it's still there
it still has some use cases but please be careful.
I'm going to do some exclamation marks here because this is something that if you're using a you want
to make sure that you're using it right.
And that's the any type when you make more space over here.
We say let whatever be of any type and let's be dramatic over here.
No I save it works and whatever can be whatever we want.
For example I can say whatever equals to five.
And can spell.
All right.
No compilation errors.
I can do.
True.
I can do lists to size that small from above.
All right.
That works too.
And I can even do let's say whatever he calls basket which is the people from up here and no errors
you see any type as the name suggest can be any type that we want.
And you're thinking to yourself huh.
So what's the point of any I mean isn't javascript just pretty much the type where we don't have static
typing.
Why would you ever want to use this.
And you're right by using this you're neglecting all the benefits that typescript would give you because
whatever we'll never throw out an error it can be whatever we want but any is useful for cases let's
say where you're working on converting your code to your javascript code into typescript code.
And that might take a long time and in the meantime you might want to just place any for really complicated
functions or really complicated objects that we can't right away define them like we have here.
But again be very cautious.
You're pretty much now using the benefits of typescript at all so if you have any all over your codebase
then you're not really using typescript properly.
Another interesting one that we can learn about is something called void.
And void is quite common when we're working with function.
Let's say we had a sing function and this sync function doesn't return anything.
It's just going to have console dialog.
Or just to be more expressive.
We have no return statement here.
We're just going to do console dialog.
La la la la la la.
Beautiful song.
Now and here if we add types to it because this function isn't returning anything we say void for nothing
return.
And you see that it's not failing.
If we do return something let's say that we return Lalah we get an error because we're expecting no
return.
But we are indeed returning something again.
We get that nice hint from typescript and our editor.
So now if we're returning la la I can just say string and everything works.
But let's keep it the way it was.
Using void for any function that doesn't return anything.
There's also a type of again let's make more space of never.
Now this is a tough one.
What do you think it does.
Let me show you by code we can say a lot ERA Equal to the air function that simply throws an air
if I saved this nothing's happening but if I give it a typo of never you know it passes.
So we recognize that the type of.
Never if I do avoid it still works because we're not returning anything.
But if I do something like string it's working as well.
So what does that mean.
Never type actually tests two things.
One is that a function never returns and the other one is that a very variable under some sort of a
type Guard is never true.
For example in our case when we throw an error typescript infers we never type because the function
neither has a return type nor a reachable endpoint.
So this works.
And if I do return hello and Icesave I get an error we get an ARM reachable code error.
But if I bring this or hold on make sure we get this to never we go up and save and we see that we get
two errors one for our reachable code which don't make sense and type pelo is not assignable to type.
Never.
If I comment this out and save again I get that error.
Once again because we're returning something
let's go back to the air and everything is compiling properly.
You might be wondering what if I put Never in here
we see that a function returned returning never cannot have a reachable endpoint because this function
runs and has an endpoint does Konsole log and then it ends.
So remember never is for a function that doesn't return and doesn't have that endpoint usually throws
an error.
All right that's it for now.
More types in the next video.
Buh-Bye.